Hello, we are Román Bono and Francisco
Giménez, Biomedical Engineering students
at the University of Alicante, and today we’re
going to talk about one of the most common
neurological diseases in the world: Parkinson’s.
Although we often associate it with hand tremors,
it is much more complex than it seems.
For this, the explanation is structured
around four essential aspects: What is
Parkinson's?, number of affected individuals,
main symptoms, and patient treatment.
To answer the question, “What is Parkinson's?”,
it can be said that it is a chronic and
progressive neurodegenerative disease,
discovered by James Parkinson, hence its name.
Parkinson’s mainly affects the central
nervous system.
This happens because the neurons responsible for
producing dopamine, an essential chemical for
movement control, deteriorate in a part of the
brain called the black mass.
Globally, it is estimated that over 10 million
people live with Parkinson's. In Europe,
the number exceeds one million, and in Spain,
around 160,000 people suffer from this disease.
These numbers continue to increase as the
population ages. According to recent data,
the projected increase in Parkinson's diagnosis
is significant, and it is expected that by
the year 2050 it could double in Spain.
The exact causes of Parkinson’s remain unknown,
though it is believed to be the result
of a combination of
genetic and environmental factors.
Thus, people with Parkinson's experience
symptoms like tremors, muscle rigidity,
and balance issues.
Living with Parkinson's involves daily challenges.
Many people need help with basic activities
such as dressing, eating, or walking. Despite
this, some manage to maintain an active life
with the support of their families and specialized
therapies.
Unfortunately, there is still no cure,
but there are treatments that help control
symptoms. Among these are medications
that help replenish dopamine or techniques
such as deep brain stimulation in advanced cases.
It is essential to increase awareness of this
disease and support both research
and the people who live with Parkinson's. Every
year, on April 11, we celebrate World
Parkinson’s Day, an opportunity to learn more
about this condition and show our support.
If you need more information or
want to contact us,
please don’t hesitate to visit our website or
write to us via our email addresses:
gimenezdelatorre@gmail.com
and bonoesteve@gmail.com